Engineering Diary from kipe24. 
Will update when i have meaningful info to contribute to the diary.

3/9: 
Skapade en grupp med fyra gruppmedlemmar. Vi satt oss ner och läste igenom hela uppgiften och började 
diskutera och bolla idéer om hur vi vill göra uppgiften samt vilka tekniker vi vill använda oss av. 
Vi stötte på många nya tekniker som vi inte arbetat med tidigare som vi kommer titta närmare på de kommande veckorna.

4/9:
Hade ett möte med gruppen där vi gick igenom frågor och diskuterade verktygen i mer detalj så att alla har en förståelse vad de används till. 
Vi installerade alla verkygen som behövdes.

5/9:
Satt oss ner och började gå igenom proccessen att arbeta med git i en och samma repo med flera användare samtidigt. 
Vi började med att använda Git cli genom terminalen och sedan avlustade vi med testa runt funktioner inne på Githubs hemsida.
Git clienten var en utmaning då det finns så många olika kommandon att komma ihåg och de blev inte alltid som man hade tänkt sig när man använder dem.
Githubs hemsida är betydligt enklare då den erbjuder en fin UI som gör det lätt att hitta. 
Jag komer personligen arbeta mer mot Git cli genom terminalen för att lära mig arbetssättet bättre.

12/9:
Since the last update i've been delving deeper into Git & Github. 
As a group we've added new branches to our repo and made a plan on how to work on the different branches.
We're going to have a Developement branch that is a copy of our main branch, and a feature branch where we work on new features
that later will be merged back to the Development branch. This will ensure that we isolate new code that we want to work on
and make it easier to see if there will be any merging problems when merging back to our Development branch.
When we're absolutely sure no merging problems will occur we can then merge it into the main branch. Ensuring that the main Branch 
is never broken.

I need to continue working on our groups git-workflow to make pushing new features more consistant and efficient. 
To do this i need to read up on what the different commands in git does in more detail and also continue adding more meaingful content to our github repo.

17/9:
I've been working more on Github and now am starting to understand the different tools and features in a deeper way.
We're been continuously adding to the Github reposition with more text and also started dividing the different menus for us to use in our database later on.
We've decided to use PostgreSQL for our relational database because it gives us more flexibility on how to set up our data. 
We're using DrawSQL to help the team visualise how our database will work and how the different tables will interect with eachother.
We will also use Python as our primary programming language because its a language everyone in the group are used to.
Coupled with the Flask framework for python it will allow us to more easily interact and set up the network connection.

I am going to learn more how Flask works and start tinkering with our website. I will also continue working on understanding and contributing to our datebase via
the DrawSQL site. I will also work more with testing but towards Python since i felt it was pretty hard to understand the Java code in our last lab session. 
I can learn more about testing if i use a programming language i am more comfortable with.

1/10:
Since my last entry we've been working on adding the finishing touches on our project structure inside Github.
We've also made the app.py file to route to our different HTML & CSS files with flask and set it up to connect to our local network. 
Flask is new to everyone in the project and it proved difficult to get started since we had to make a specific file structure for flask to connect the html, css and the python file
together so it can start through the app.py file.

We've also finished the MenuStore database and added it to Github and containerized it with docker. 
I tried setting it up within Docker Desktop first but it proved difficult since i had to make several commands into the terminal which i didnt know enough about so it only
made the image/container and connection wrong. 

I finally figured it out together with the group and we set up a dockerfile inside our project in VScode,
made a requirements.txt file and pulled a postgres image from dockerhub and then made a container with it. 
Now everyone in the group can easily set up the database in their own container and work with it.

Im going to continue working on the burgerorderer website and flesh the menus out further and start to think about how we are going to be implementing the database into our python file.
Next time i'll have to thoroughly read through the commands and watch a longer tutorial to really grasp what commands in docker
im using actually do. That will certainly help out and avoid some annoying debugging in the future.





