Engineer’s Diary

03-09-2024

I created a group with Kim, André, and Jesper. We also made a Discord server where we discuss what we are going to do and share links to good resources for the project.

04-09-2024

We sat in the Ericsson lab and read through the assignment together to ensure everyone was on the same page and to check if anyone had any questions or suggestions.

05-09-2024

During the lab session, we sat down as a group and discussed which programs we would use. We decided on the following: Jetbrains, Docker, JDK, IntelliJ, VS Code, Python, and GitHub.
After installing the environments we needed, we sat together as a group and started learning how GitHub works and how to use its various features like push, pull, fork, and branch to gain an understanding. We also 
worked on some exercises in Java.
Afterward, we created a GitHub repository where we write our engineering diaries.

10-09-2024

We created a document where we document what needs to be done and how we will do it.
This will be our manual for how to proceed with the assignment.
We also set up our GitHub flow and discussed how to branch and push our various files.
We divided the work regarding who will handle which product type. I took drinks, André took hamburgers, Kim took menus, and Jesper took side dishes.
I filled out my list with different types of drinks and their sizes.

12-09-2024

Since the last time I updated the diary, we have gone through each other’s product types and added what we think a typical burger place would have. We still have some more changes to make and things to add.
We also decided to name our burger place "Four Guy’s." We came up with this name because, like the popular American hamburger chain "Five Guy’s," which was founded by five guys, we are four guys making our own fast-
food chain.

During the lab, my group and I practiced debugging in Java within VS Code. We used the debugging tools provided by VS Code to gain a deeper understanding of testing and debugging, which will help us as we work on 
the burger menu assignment.

17-09-2024

We had a lecture today where our teacher talked about the assignment. It made me reflect on the project, giving me a clearer view of what we need to do and how we are going to get there. He also emphasized the 
importance of writing good code from the beginning and avoiding unnecessary comments.

After the lecture, we sat down in the Ericsson laboratory and reviewed our plans for the assignment. We completed the menus, ensuring that each burger had a drink, side, and dip.
We also reflected on the tools we are using for the project. We chose Python as the programming language, Flask as the framework, and HTML and CSS for the webpage (using CSS just to make the webpage more readable 
for us). We picked Docker for the database and SQL to handle the data.
We also updated and fixed some text in our task documentation so we can refer back to it to see what we have done and what still needs to be done. This will also help us when we write the summary of the text.

24-09-2024

Since the last diary entry, we have gotten our feature branches in GitHub to work. It took us a few hours to get it to work. The problem we found was that when we created the branches in the command interpreter, they didn’t connect to GitHub correctly, so we couldn’t use them. However, by either 
creating the branches directly in GitHub or manually setting the paths, we got it to work. Now we can push and pull and work together on the feature branches, which will make the project a lot cleaner and easier to 
manage.

Today, we created the web pages for our burger order system. We are using Flask to separate the files so the code is more organized and easier to work with. We created separate files for Python, HTML, and CSS, and 
we have different CSS files for each HTML page.
By sitting down today and working together on the web pages, we got a clearer picture of what we, as a group, envision for our finished program. This makes it much easier to identify the steps we need to take to 
complete the program.
